## Sound

In reading Tanya Clement's piece, *The Ground Truth of DH Text Mining,* I was really struck with the power of the metaphors she used to describe sound and "The Word." Clement emphasizes that text mining and text analysis rely on the creation of a new document to be interpreted by a researcher, based on their biases and understandings of meaning-making, trends, themes etc. She writes that The Word is indisputable and solid, but sound can be nebulous and subjective. This means that it will be interpreted differently, and deemed meaningful (or not) in different ways by different audiences. Clement writes, "to mine these acoustic features is to understand that ground truth must always be indeterminate. Which features you choose and how you label that cluster of acoustic features that is sound will often be different from the features and labels I might choose." I love this, and find that it compels DH researchers to examine different possibilities and work more self-reflexively. 

Steph Ceraso's entry on **Sound** in the "Digital Pedagogy in the Humanities" showcased the advantages of sonic education and sonic media. Ceraso suggested four main categories within sonic education - "Writing with Sound," "Curating Sound," "Sound Mapping" and "Critical Listening." I really loved the suggestion about critical listening as an approach to and part of sonic education, as Ceraso suggests that "rather than taking listening for granted as something that people simply do, this approach involves teaching students to reflect on their own listening practices and to consider how their listening practices have changed over time in response to personal, cultural, historical, and technological developments." Especially, I wrote in hypothesis, now that we have "personal sonic worlds" at our fingertips, it's much easier to forget the **shared** sounds around us. I am encouraged to experiment with sonic techniques, and have enjoyed playing with creating soundscapes in the past. 

Emily Thompson's writeup about *The Roaring Twenties* exhibit and sounds also reminded me that while these performances and experiments are part of a larger archive on the web, digital humanists' work is unique. It is based in a scholarly practice and tradition that offers paradata, reflexive thinking, and a different approach to creating in the digital realm. 

So awesome, and looking forward to experimenting today! 

This week's readings:

Clement, Tanya. 2016. The Ground Truth of DH Text Mining Debates in the Digital Humanities http://dhdebates.gc.cuny.edu/debates/text/96

Ceraso, Steph. ‘Sound’ Digital Pedagogy in the Humanities https://digitalpedagogy.mla.hcommons.org/keywords/sound/

Emily Thompson and Scott Mahoy. “The Roaring Twenties: an interactive exploration of the soundscape of New York City” Vectors Fall 2013. http://vectors.usc.edu/projects/index.php?project=98&thread=AuthorsStatement

Jentery Sayer “Making the perfect record: From inscription to impression in early magnetic recording. American Literature (volume 85, number 4, December 2013) http://scalar.usc.edu/maker/record/index

Graham, S. 2016 ‘The Sound of Data (a gentle introduction to sonification for historians)” The Programming Historian https://programminghistorian.org/lessons/sonification

Murphy, D., Shelley, S., Foteinou, A., Brereton, J. and Daffern, H. 2017 Acoustic Heritage and Audio Creativity: the Creative Application of Sound in the Representation, Understanding and Experience of Past Environments, Internet Archaeology 44. https://doi.org/10.11141/ia.44.12

Ruten, Daniel. 2017 ‘Sonic Word Clouds’ The Programming Historian https://programminghistorian.org/posts/sonic-word-clouds

Eve, Stuart, Kerrie Hoffman, Colleen Morgan, Alexis Pantos and Sam Kinchin-Smith 2014 ‘Voices Recognition’ http://www.heritagejam.org/jam-day-entries/2014/7/12/voices-recognition-stuart-eve-kerrie-hoffman-colleen-morgan-alexis-pantos-and-sam-kinchin-smith

--
layout: post
published: true
--

